Start with residence's code.
https://github.com/bekvon/Residence
Look at GriefPrevention to see some help with how he did things.
https://github.com/ryanhamshire/GriefPrevention

The goal here is to get rid of grief prevention but make it very easy for admins and users alike to protect land.	

Everywhere below there is an X or Y etc, means its configurable at a server level as well as a permission level.
	i.e. Server default for residence size is 100.
	Guests has a default residence size of 25.
	All residences created by Guests will be 25
	All residences created by anyone else will be 100
	

The changes from residence:
	There is a special kind of residence (called a zone for the sake of this doc).
		Can only be created by Me (permissions based)
		No limit on size.  
		All the set/gset/pset rules can be set.
		New flag called create, that only applies to this type of residence (or it can reuse the subzone flag).
			/res gset guest create t
			Can also be handled in the global config to say a user can create anywhere.
		BUT, it will be different than residence in that:
			It is not a residence, its just a zone saying what can happen in it.  
			The residences users create must be within a zone, but are treated like root residences not subzones.
			So I would create a huge residence called "North" and /res gset guest create t and whatever other defaults
	There are two ways to create a residence
		Permission based, users have to have a permission to claim using either method.
		1. Using residence methods (moderators etc)
		2. Using grief prevention methods (cits/guests etc)
			Users can only create a residence in a server zone that has the create flag for them or their group
			These residences are /res select vert also
			Users place a chest in a zone and a res is automatically created if there is space.
			If they try to create a residence where there isn't space (due to below rules)
				They are given a message which explains the issue, and says type /res findland (or similar)
				When they type /res findland they are teleported to the nearest available land within the same zone
					Will require complicated calculation
	Users cannot create a residence within X blocks of another claim in any direction
	Users of each level can have X claims
	Users residence size is X blocks in each direction from center (like grief prevention)
		You will need to save the center location as well as the other two corners for growing purposes
	User can see outline of their claim using a tool (like grief prevention), but they cannot change it.
	Users earn X number of blocks per Y minutes of being on the server
		1 block of growth is huge, as it grows in each direction.
	Unlike GP it grows automatically each time they log off
		It grows by the number of blocks they have earned
		If they haven't earned enough to grow yet, save how many they have earned for next time.
		If their residence bumps into another residence it stops growing in that direction, no wrapping around residences.
	All residence set/pset/gset commands for for people in their own residence.
		Add a "trust" command which allows a player to let another player have all permissions on that res 
			except to change any settings.
		Add a "partner" command which allows a player to let another player have full control of the res.
			Like being owner
	Allow residences to be abandoned or gifted to others.
	Residences automatically get scrubbed if the user hasn't logged on in X days.
		If a player rents out his residence, either player can log on to keep it from being scrubbed
		Scrub job should run once a day.
		Scrubbed residences still exist and are protected, but can be claimed by others.
		When a res is scrubbed and a player enters it:
			If they have the "occupy" permission
			A special notice comes up saying they can become a squatter of the land by typing /res occupy.
			A squatter has a waiting period of X days before they will own the land.
			During the waiting period:
				They must visit the property each day to make it count.
				So if they occupy it and the waiting period is 20 days:
					And they visit it every other day, it will take 40 days to own it completely.
				If they don't visit the property within Y days someone else can /res occupy and take over the squat
					Causes waiting period to reset, its as if the first person never squatted.
				A squatter cannot "build" on the property (unless they already have the permission from a set/gset/pset)
				They can "use" and "container" things.
				They cannot change any permissions on the property
			Properties earned by squatting have a setting associated with it as well as previous owners names.
			Properties earned by squatting don't count towards the total residences allowed.
